Kirk: SPACE:
THE FINAL FRONTIER.
THESE ARE THE VOYAGES
OF THE STARSHIP ENTERPRISE.
ITS FIVE-YEAR MISSION:
TO EXPLORE STRANGE NEW WORLDS,
TO SEEK OUT NEW LIFE
AND NEW CIVILIZATIONS,
TO BOLDLY GO
WHERE NO MAN HAS GONE BEFORE.
Kirk: CAPTAIN'S LOG,
STARDATE 5221.3.
ON OUTWARD COURSE
BEYOND THE FRINGE OF OUR GALAXY
TOWARDS QUESTAR M-17,
A SOURCE OF MYSTERIOUS
RADIO EMISSIONS.
MISSION, STARCHARTING.
[ALARM BLARING]
SITUATION, MR. SCOTT?
WE'VE PICKED UP SPEED, SIR,
RAPIDLY.
I'VE CUT BACK POWER, BUT WE
CONTINUE TO GAIN MOMENTUM.
MR. SULU?
SHE'S NOT ANSWERING
THE HELM, SIR.
TWO MINUTES
RIGHT ASCENSION OFF COURSE
AND DRIFTING FARTHER, CAPTAIN.
[RAPID BEEPING]
STAND BY TO REVERSE COURSE.
-STANDING BY, SIR.
-REVERSE COURSE.
I CAN ONLY DESCRIBE IT
AS HYPERGRAVITY, CAPTAIN,
MORE POWERFUL THAN ANY
WE'VE EVER ENCOUNTERED.
IT'S DRAGGING THE ENTERPRISE
TOWARD IT.
WHY AREN'T OUR SENSORS
PICKING IT UP?
FORWARD SCANNERS, MR. SULU.
[BEEPING]
CAPTAIN, THAT'S THE SOURCE
OF THE RADIO EMISSIONS.
[STATIC]
NEGATIVE STAR MASS.
SPECTRA ANALYSIS,
IMPLODED MATTER, BUT EVERY
READING ON IT IS NEGATIVE.
CAPTAIN, WE'RE STILL
GAINING SPEED.
FULL REVERSE THRUST.
NO GOOD, SIR. WE'RE STILL
FALLING TOWARD IT.
-HOW MUCH TIME DO WE HAVE?
-IMPACT IN 93 SECONDS,
92,
-91...
-CAPTAIN,
THERE'S ANOTHER SIGNAL.
LISTEN.
[ELECTRONIC BUZZING]
Spock:
40 SECONDS, CAPTAIN,
39, 38...
SULU, FLANK SPEED AHEAD.
OUR ONLY CHANCE IS
TO TRY TO GET INTO ORBIT
AROUND THAT THING.
AYE, AYE, CAPTAIN.
Spock: NINE SECONDS.
EIGHT, SEVEN...
[RAPID BEEPING]
ORBITAL VELOCITY.
Kirk: STEADY AS SHE GOES,
MR. SULU. MAINTAIN ORBIT.
Sulu: AYE, AYE, CAPTAIN.
IF ITS PULL IS THIS STRONG, JIM,
HOW DO WE GET OUT OF ORBIT?
SLINGSHOT EFFECT, MR. SPOCK?
DO WE HAVE ENOUGH POWER?
I'LL NEED SOME TIME
FOR THE COMPUTATIONS, CAPTAIN.
I'M GETTING THAT RADIO SOUND
AGAIN, SIR.
NINE SECONDS RIGHT ASCENSION
FROM GALACTIC PLANE,
DEAD AHEAD AND CLOSING FAST.
IT'S ON THE VIEW SCREEN NOW,
SIR.
[BEEPING]
-PUT US ALONGSIDE, MR. SULU.
-AYE, AYE, SIR.
IT'S A STARSHIP --
LIKE NOTHING I'VE EVER SEEN.
THE SIZE OF IT.
Kirk: IT'S BEEN DAMAGED.
I'LL BET SHE WAS
PULLED IN LIKE WE WERE.
IT'S COMING FROM THAT SHIP,
CAPTAIN.
CONFIRMED, CAPTAIN,
BUT IT ISN'T POSSIBLE.
THAT SHIP IS DEAD.
TEMPERATURE IS ABSOLUTE ZERO.
THERE IS NO THERMAL READING
TO SUPPORT LIFE ABOARD HER,
AND NO ENERGY STORE
TO SEND RADIO MESSAGES.
NOTHING EXCEPT A SLIGHT
MAGNETIC FLUX READING,
WHICH COULD BE NORMAL
FOR THE SHIP'S METAL.
YOU'RE SURE, MR. SPOCK?
PROBABILITY .997, CAPTAIN.
Kirk:
CAN YOU IDENTIFY THAT METAL
OR THE DESIGN OF THE SHIP?
NEGATIVE TO BOTH, CAPTAIN.
UNKNOWN ALLOY,
HARDER AND LIGHTER
THAN ANY REGISTERED METAL.
IT IS NOT A RECORDED
GALACTIC STARSHIP DESIGN.
RETRO ANALYSIS
OF THE SHIP'S SPECTRA
DATES IT AS HAVING BEEN
IN ORBIT HERE FOR SLIGHTLY
MORE THAN 300 MILLION YEARS.
Uhura: IT'S BEAUTIFUL.
WHAT KIND OF PEOPLE
COULD HAVE BUILT IT TO...
TO TOUCH EVEN A STARSHIP
WITH GRACE AND BEAUTY?
A CIVILIZATION THAT ADVANCED
300 MILLION YEARS AGO
BEFORE LIFE EVEN
EMERGED ON EARTH.
BARELY AN INSTANT
IN ETERNITY, JIM.
MR. SPOCK, ANY INDICATION
OF THAT SHIP'S POWER SOURCE?
NO, CAPTAIN, BUT THIS FAR
FROM A G1 STAR,
IT IS LOGICAL TO ASSUME THEY HAD
SOME KIND OF WARP DRIVE.
WE'LL BOARD HER,
MR. SPOCK.
SCOTTY, BONES,
YOU'LL COME WITH US.
WE'LL NEED LIFE-SUPPORT BELTS.
MR. SULU, HAVE
THE TRANSPORTER ROOM STAND BY.
Sulu: YES, SIR.
Kyle: READY, CAPTAIN.
ACTIVATE LIFE-SUPPORT BELTS.
ENERGIZE.
Spock: THE HEXAGONAL SHAPE
OF THE WINDOWS
SUGGESTS A SIMILARITY TO NATURAL
INSECT DESIGNS OF EARTH,
THE HONEYCOMBS OF BEES.
THE INDIVIDUAL CELLS ARE SHAPED
PRECISELY LIKE THIS.
WOULD YOU LOOK AT THIS, NOW?
THIS METAL,
IT ISN'T CAST OR ROLLED.
IT WAS DRAWN
INTO FILAMENTS AND SPUN.
LIKE A SPIDER SPINS HIS WEB.
A LIGHTER AND STRONGER MATERIAL
THAN ANYTHING WE HAVE NOW.
LOOK, EVERY POD,
THEY'VE ALL BEEN BURST OPEN.
AYE, FROM THE INSIDE,
FROM THE LOOKS OF THEM.
MUST HAVE BEEN SOME ACCIDENT
TO GET ALMOST EVERY POD.
ACCIDENTS SELDOM HAVE
SUCH SYSTEM, DR. McCOY.
I BELIEVE WE MUST CONSIDER
THE ALTERNATIVE POSSIBILITY
THAT THE CREW OF THIS SHIP
DESTROYED HER THEMSELVES.
Kirk: CAPTAIN'S LOG.
WE HAVE BEAMED ABOARD
THE ALIEN SHIP
FOUND ORBITING
A STRANGE DEAD STAR.
THE ENTERPRISE IS RECORDING
ALL DATA
FOR THE LOG
AND A FULL REPORT LATER.
KIRK TO ENTERPRISE.
ENTERPRISE.
LIEUTENANT UHURA HERE.
LIEUTENANT, ARE YOU STILL
GETTING THAT RADIO SIGNAL
FROM THIS SHIP?
NEGATIVE, CAPTAIN.
IT STOPPED TRANSMITTING
WHEN YOU BEAMED ABOARD.
Kirk: ALL RIGHT, LOCK ON US
WITH THE TRANSPORTER
AND BE READY TO TRANSPORT.
WE'RE GOING INSIDE.
Uhura: TRANSPORTER BEAM
ON AND LOCKED.
STANDING BY.
[HIGH-PITCHED BEEPING]
WHAT DO YOU MAKE OF IT, SPOCK?
[TRICORDER BEEPING]
CAPTAIN,
IT'S REGISTERING ENERGY,
VERY LITTLE, BUT BUILDING.
YOU MEAN IT'S FUNCTIONING
AFTER ALL THE MILLENNIUMS
THIS SHIP HAS BEEN HERE?
Spock:
THE WANDS ARE ACCUMULATORS,
RECEPTORS TO ATTRACT ENERGY,
MOTION, SOUND, LIGHT, HEAT,
EVERY KIND OF ENERGY
AROUND THEM.
Scotty:
THE STRUCTURE OF THE SHIP,
THOSE HUGE ARCHES, THRUSTING UP.
THE WHOLE SHIP IS DESIGNED
TO RECEIVE AND STORE ENERGY.
GIVES ME THE CREEPS.
I FEEL LIKE SOMETHING'S
WATCHING US.
I FEEL IT, TOO, CAPTAIN.
A PHYSIOLOGICAL SYMPTOM
OF LATENT PRIMAL SUPERSTITION,
THE FEAR OF PRIMITIVE PEOPLE
CONFRONTING SOMETHING
UNKNOWN TO THEM.
Kirk: COMPARED TO THE BEINGS
THAT BUILT THIS SHIP,
WE ARE PRIMITIVE PEOPLE,
EVEN YOU, MR. SPOCK.
ALL RIGHT, LET'S KEEP GOING.
Kirk: TRICORDER ANALYSIS,
MR. SPOCK.
ARTIFICIAL GRAVITY
IS IN EFFECT HERE, CAPTAIN.
BOTH AIR AND GRAVITY WITHIN
TWO POINTS OF EARTH NORMAL.
ENTERPRISE, DO YOU READ ME?
-SULU?
-Spock: NO USE, CAPTAIN.
SOME SORT OF INTERFERENCE
HAS BEEN SET UP.
WE CAN CUT OUR WAY
OUT OF HERE.
NO ENERGY REGISTERING.
SOMETHING'S DRAINED THEM.
YOU MEAN WE'RE TRAPPED HERE?
NO COMMUNICATION, NOTHING?
FOR THE MOMENT.
Kirk:
THIS IS... WAS THE CONTROL
CENTER OF THE STARSHIP.
THESE MUST BE CONTROL
AND NAVIGATIONAL INSTRUMENTS.
Spock:
THE SOURCE OF THE INTERFERENCE
IS HERE, CAPTAIN.
IT'S NOT PART
OF THE NORMAL EQUIPMENT.
IT'S LIKE SOMETHING THEY
JURY-RIGGED DURING AN EMERGENCY.
SOMETHING TO SHIELD THIS ROOM.
BUT SHIELD IT FROM WHAT?
POSSIBLY FROM WHATEVER
HAD COME ABOARD THEIR SHIP.
BUT NOTHING,
NO FORM OF LIFE COULD SURVIVE
300 MILLION YEARS.
QUITE RIGHT, MR. SCOTT.
NO KNOWN FORM OF LIFE.
[BUZZING]
JIM, THE DOOR.
SOMETHING IS TRYING TO GET IN.
THE FIELD OF INTERFERENCE
IS REACTING AGAINST THE
MAGNETIC FLUX LINES, CAPTAIN.
Kirk: WILL IT HOLD?
IF THE ENERGY STAYS
AT THAT LEVEL.
[DISTORTED VOICE SPEAKING]
-WHAT IS IT?
-I'M NOT SURE, BUT I THINK...
[STATIC]
[MUFFLED INDISTINCT TALKING]
IT COULD BE A SHIP'S LOG
OR A WARNING.
IT SEEMS TO KEEP REPEATING.
A MESSAGE FROM
300 MILLION YEARS AGO?
IT IS POSSIBLE THAT THIS MUCH
OF THEIR TECHNOLOGY SURVIVED.
ANYTHING?
I MAY BE ABLE
TO GET A TRANSLATION.
-HURRY UP, SPOCK.
-PATIENCE, DOCTOR.
[MUFFLED TALKING CONTINUES]
Distorted alien voice:
DANGER. DANGER.
THE DEAD STAR,
WE ARE BEING DRAWN TO IT.
RATHER THAN CARRY THIS
MALEVOLENT LIFE FORM
TO OTHER WORLDS,
WE HAVE DECIDED
TO DESTROY OUR OWN SHIP.
THERE IS NO OTHER ANSWER.
IF YOU UNDERSTAND
THIS MESSAGE,
YOU ARE PROTECTED
ONLY FOR THIS MOMENT
IN THIS ROOM.
THIS THING IT WANTS...
GET OUT OF HERE! HURRY!
LOCATED THEM RIGHT AFTER
THAT EXPLOSION, MR. SULU.
WE'RE LOCKED ON
AND BEAMING THEM ABOARD.
GOOD WORK, MR. KYLE.
I THOUGHT WE LOST THEM
WHEN WE WERE CUT OFF SO LONG.
PIECE OF CAKE, SIR.
HERE THEY COME NOW.
CAPTAIN, SOMETHING
BEAMED ABOARD WITH YOU.
[DISTORTED BLEEPING]
TRANSPORT IT BACK OUT.
[BLEEPING]
[TRIUMPHANT CACKLING]
STATUS?
SICKBAY REPORTS
NO INJURIES TO CREW, SIR.
NO DAMAGE TO HULL
OR ENGINES, CAPTAIN.
AUTOMATIC BRIDGE DEFENSE SYSTEM
ON AND PREPARED, SIR.
SO, WE'RE ALL JUST FINE,
BUT WHATEVER WAS ON THAT SHIP
USED OUR TRANSPORTER BEAM
TO COME ABOARD WITH US,
AND NOW IT'S HERE.
THAT ALIEN COMMANDER, SIR.
THE MESSAGE SAID THAT THEY HAD
TO DESTROY THEIR OWN SHIP.
UNTIL WE LEARN MORE
ABOUT IT, SCOTTY,
PERHAPS WE SHOULD BE READY
TO DO THE SAME.
TAKE TWO OF YOUR MEN
AND ARM THE SELF-DESTRUCT DEVICE
IN THE ENGINEERING CORE.
-AYE, SIR.
-Kirk: MR. SPOCK,
[BEEPING]
ANY CHANGE IN SHIP'S READINGS?
WE'RE REGISTERING
A SLIGHTLY HIGHER THAN NORMAL
MAGNETIC FLUX.
NOT DANGEROUS,
BUT THE LEVEL ISN'T CONSTANT.
IT SEEMS TO FLUCTUATE,
A STEADY, ALMOST PULSING RHYTHM.
LIKE THE BEATING OF A HEART.
BRIDGE, LIEUTENANT UHU...
WHAT?
CAPTAIN, DECKS 5 AND 6
REPORT SHUTDOWN
OF ALL LIFE-SUPPORT SYSTEMS.
THEY'VE GONE
TO LIFE-SUPPORT BELTS.
MANUAL OVERRIDE
IS NOT RESPONDING.
[ALARM BLARING]
[SECOND ALARM BLARING]
TROUBLE IN
THE ENGINEERING CORE, SIR.
BRIDGE TO SICKBAY.
BONES, GET DOWN TO THE
ENGINEERING CORE ON THE DOUBLE!
GET ON THOSE
LIFE-SUPPORT SYSTEMS NOW!
THE FORCE FIELD OF HIS BELT
WON'T HOLD THAT WEIGHT
FOR LONG, JIM.
OVERRIDE SYSTEMS, MR. SPOCK.
OPEN THE CORE HATCH.
IT'S NO USE, SIR.
THE MECHANISM IS FROZEN.
THEY'VE ALREADY TRIED.
SOMETHING'S JAMMED THE CIRCUITS.
THEY'RE MAGNETIZED.
ALL RIGHT, GET THE CUTTER BEAMS
ON THAT HATCH.
-MOVE!
-YES, SIR.
[THUD]
[WHISPERING]
AYE, THANK YOU, SIR.
Sulu: BRIDGE TO CAPTAIN KIRK.
SOMETHING'S ACTIVATING
THE SHIP'S PHASER BANKS.
THEY'RE LOCKING
ON THE ALIEN STARSHIP.
PHASER BANKS WERE OFF, CAPTAIN.
THEY ACTIVATED THEMSELVES.
AND MUTUAL OVERRIDE
DID NOT WORK?
NO, SIR.
EXACTLY LIKE
THE ENGINEERING CONTROLS
AND THE LIFE-SUPPORT SYSTEMS
ON DECKS 5 AND 6.
SIR, WE CANNOT
GET INTO THE CORE.
THE CUTTER BEAMS.
DRAINED OF ALL ENERGY, SIR.
SIR, CARGO HOLDS 3, 4 AND 5
JUST SHUT DOWN
LIFE-SUPPORT SYSTEMS.
POWER OUT ON ALL
BUT KEY LEVELS, CAPTAIN.
Spock:
HIGH MAGNETIC FLUX READING.
CAPTAIN KIRK,
THE SHIP'S COMPUTERS.
SOMETHING'S GOING THROUGH
EVERY STORAGE BANK.
IT SEEMS TO BE TAKING CONTROL
OF THE WHOLE SHIP.
SPOCK, CAN YOU RIG
A LOW-FREQUENCY SHIELD
LIKE THE ONE ON THE ALIEN SHIP,
ON OUR NAVIGATION CONSOLE?
IT WOULD HAVE
A VERY SMALL FIELD.
DO IT.
IT'S ACTIVATED, CAPTAIN, BUT
ONLY AN AREA 3 METERS SQUARE.
DO YOU GET A MAGNETIC FLUX
READING THERE NOW?
NEGATIVE, CAPTAIN.
JIM, YOU DON'T THINK
THAT'S GOING TO HELP US?
WHATEVER THAT THING IS,
IT SURVIVED MILLENNIA
IN A DEAD HULK.
ALL IT HAS TO DO HERE IS
OUTLAST US AND JUST TAKE OVER.
NO.
IT MUST BE HELD BY THE MAGNETIC
FORCE OF THE DEAD STAR,
AND IT NEEDS A STARSHIP TO BREAK
FREE AND A CREW TO MAN IT.
Alien on PA: YOU ARE CORRECT,
CAPTAIN JAMES T. KIRK,
AND I HAVE THE STARSHIP
I'VE WAITED FOR SO LONG,
SO TERRIBLY LONG.
[RATTLING]
IT HAS ABSORBED THE MEMORY
BANKS, CAPTAIN. ALL OF THEM.
Alien: YOU WILL NOW REMOVE
THE STATIC SHIELD
FROM THE NAVIGATION CONSOLE,
CAPTAIN JAMES T. KIRK.
YOU HAVE SHUT DOWN
LIFE-SUPPORT SYSTEMS
AND ENDANGERED
MEMBERS OF MY CREW.
RESTORE THOSE SYSTEMS FIRST.
Alien: ALL NONESSENTIAL SYSTEMS
ARE EXTINGUISHED.
YOU WILL OBEY ME.
AND IF I REFUSE?
[ZAPPING]
Alien: OBEY ME!
CAPTAIN!
STOP! YOU'LL HURT HIM!
Alien: REMOVE THE STATIC SHIELD
FROM THE WARP DRIVE CONTROLS!
DO IT NOW!
NO, CAPTAIN!
I'LL OBEY! LET HIM GO!
Alien: REPAIR THE WARP DRIVE
CONTROLS! OBEY ME!
MR. SCOTT, START REPAIRS.
INSTALL THE AUXILIARY CONTROLS.
AYE, CAPTAIN.
I'M ALL RIGHT, CAPTAIN.
WHAT ARE WE
DEALING WITH, SPOCK?
HIGH RANK PROBABILITIES,
CAPTAIN.
IT IS A MAGNETIC ORGANISM
WITHOUT MASS,
BUT CAPABLE OF SYMBIOTIC
RELATIONSHIP WITH A HOST BODY,
A STARSHIP, FOR INSTANCE.
IT IS A FORM
OF PRIMAL ENERGY,
AND IT CAN UTILIZE
THE ELECTRONIC CONTROL SYSTEMS
OF A STARSHIP
LIKE THE MIND OF A MAN
USES THE NEURAL CONTROL SYSTEMS
OF THE HUMAN BODY.
IT HAS BECOME THE ENTERPRISE,
AND WE ARE ONLY LIFE-SUPPORT
ORGANISMS IN ITS BODY,
LIKE THE WHITE CORPUSCLES
IN HUMAN BLOOD,
AND, CAPTAIN, THE MAGNETIC
FLUX READINGS ARE HIGHER.
IT IS GROWING STRONGER,
BUILDING ITSELF.
A SLINGSHOT EFFECT
TO YANK US OUT OF ORBIT.
CAN YOU COMPUTE IT
IN YOUR MIND?
IF WE TRY TO USE
SHIP'S COMPUTERS...
Spock: THE ALIEN WILL KNOW.
I BELIEVE I CAN, CAPTAIN.
I WILL NEED TO AID MR. SCOTT.
THE ENGINEER WILL NEED AID
FROM MY FIRST OFFICER
TO COMPLETE REPAIRS.
IS THAT PERMITTED?
I GUESS IT IS.
Alien: YOU WILL LEAVE THIS ORBIT
AND PLOT COURSE
TO GALACTIC COORDINATES
036.231.
THAT'S THE HEART
OF THE GALAXY, CAPTAIN.
PLOT THE COURSE, MR. SULU.
CAPTAIN, THIS SYMBIONT CAN
REPRODUCE ITSELF BY MITOSIS
AND TAKE OVER
EVERY STARSHIP WE ENCOUNTER.
IT CAN CONTROL COMPUTER CENTERS,
WHOLE PLANETS.
I'M AWARE OF THAT,
MR. SPOCK.
Alien:
COMPLETE REPAIRS! OBEY ME!
AUXILIARY CONTROLS
READY TO ACTIVATE, CAPTAIN.
THE AUXILIARY
WARP DRIVE CONTROLS CAN
ONLY BE OPERATED MANUALLY.
Alien: THAT IS CORRECT.
YOU WILL ACTIVATE
THE MANUAL CONTROLS. OBEY!
CONTROLS ACTIVATED.
[ALARM BLARING]
CAPTAIN, WE'RE DROPPING
OUT OF ORBIT!
WE'RE FALLING
INTO THE DEAD SUN.
Alien:
APPLY FULL POWER! OBEY ME!
NO! ACCELERATE!
DO NOT DESTROY THE SHIP!
OBEY ME! OBEY! OBEY!
STAND BY TO ACTIVATE
WARP DRIVE UNIT!
Alien: NO! DON'T!
ACTIVATE WARP DRIVE!
ACTIVATED, CAPTAIN!
Alien: PLEASE... DON'T!
[DISTORTED BLEEPING]
-IS IT GONE?
-AFFIRMATIVE.
IT FLED THE SHIP
WHEN IT THOUGHT WE WOULD
CRASH INTO THE DEAD STAR.
Alien: [CRYING]
DON'T LEAVE ME ALONE.
PLEASE, PLEASE.
SO LONELY.
Kirk: CAPTAIN'S LOG,
STARDATE 5221.8. FINAL ENTRY.
RESUMING OUTWARD COURSE BEYOND
THE FARTHEST STAR OF OUR GALAXY.
MISSION, STARCHARTING.